.\" ====================================================================
.\"  @Troff-man-file{
.\"     author          = "Nelson H. F. Beebe",
.\"     version         = "1.02",
.\"     date            = "30 October 1992",
.\"     time            = "19:45:51 MST",
.\"     filename        = "bibextract.man",
.\"     address         = "Center for Scientific Computing
.\"                        Department of Mathematics
.\"                        University of Utah
.\"                        Salt Lake City, UT 84112
.\"                        USA",
.\"     telephone       = "+1 801 581 5254",
.\"     FAX             = "+1 801 581 4148",
.\"     checksum        = "43595 149 608 5180",
.\"     email           = "beebe@math.utah.edu (Internet)",
.\"     codetable       = "ISO/ASCII",
.\"     keywords        = "bibliography, BibTeX",
.\"     supported       = "yes",
.\"     docstring       = "This file contains the UNIX manual pages
.\"                        for the bibextract command, a shell script
.\"                        that invokes an awk program to extract from
.\"                        a list of BibTeX .bib files bibliography
.\"                        entries that match a specified regular
.\"                        expression.
.\"
.\"                        The checksum field above contains a CRC-16
.\"                        checksum as the first value, followed by the
.\"                        equivalent of the standard UNIX wc (word
.\"                        count) utility output of lines, words, and
.\"                        characters.  This is produced by Robert
.\"                        Solovay's checksum utility.",
.\"  }
.\" ====================================================================
.if t .ds Bi B\s-2IB\s+2T\\h'-0.1667m'\\v'0.20v'E\\v'-0.20v'\\h'-0.125m'X
.if n .ds Bi BibTeX
.TH BIBEXTRACT 1 "30 October 1992" "Version 1.02"
.\"======================================================================
.SH NAME
bibextract \- extract BibTeX entries from a list of .bib files
.\"======================================================================
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI bibextract " keyword-regexp value-regexp bibfile(s)"
.\"======================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bibextract
extracts from a list of \*(Bi\&
.I .bib
files those bibliography entries that match a pair of specified
regular expressions, sending them to
.IR stdout ,
together with all \*(Bi\& ``@Preamble{.\|.\|.}''
and ``@String{.\|.\|.}'' commands.
.PP
The first regular-expression pattern,
.IR keyword-regexp ,
is used to select which  \fI``keyword = "value"''\fP
pairs to examine further; it matches against the
keyword part only.  If it is an empty string, then
all such pairs are examined.
.PP
The second regular-expression pattern,
.IR value-regexp ,
is used to further select from the value strings
of \fI``keyword = "value"''\fP pairs the
bibliography entries to be output.  The selection
algorithm therefore consists of the logical AND of
match successes against the keyword and value
strings.
.PP
.B bibextract
can be used to extract from a large \*(Bi\&
bibliography data base just those bibliography
entries that match a particular pair of regular
expressions.
.\"======================================================================
.SH EXAMPLES
Here are some examples:
.PP
Extract all entries mentioning chaos in any field:
.IP
.B bibextract
\&\fI"" "chaos" bibfile(s) >new-bibtex-file"\fP
.PP
Extract entries with names Brown or Smith
occurring in either of the author or editor
fields:
.IP
.B bibextract
\&\fI"author|editor" "brown|smith" bibfile(s) >new-bibtex-file\fP
.PP
Extract entries for titles containing the
letter `z' anywhere after a vowel; note that
single quotes are necessary to provide the
necessary protection from shell expansion:
.IP
.B bibextract
\&\fI"title" '[aeiou].*z' bibfile(s) >new-bibtex-file\fP
.\"======================================================================
.SH BUGS
.B bibextract
is not smart enough to incorporate \*(Bi\& cross
references unless they are themselves matched by
the specified regular expression.
.PP
That feature should be added.
.\"======================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bibclean (1),
.BR bibindex (1),
.BR biblook (1),
.BR bibsort (1),
.BR bibtex (1),
.BR citefind (1),
.BR citetags (1),
.BR latex (1),
.BR nawk (1).
.\"======================================================================
.SH FILES
.\" NB: LIBDIR and BINDIR are substituted for real directory names
.\"     by a sed script invoked by "make install".
.TP \w'@LIBDIR@/bibextract.awk'u+2n
@LIBDIR@/bibextract.awk
.BR nawk (1)
program for tag extraction.
.TP
@BINDIR@/bibextract
user-callable shell script to invoke
.BR nawk (1).
.\"======================================================================
.SH AUTHOR
Nelson H. F. Beebe, Ph.D.
.br
Center for Scientific Computing
.br
Department of Mathematics
.br
University of Utah
.br
Salt Lake City, UT 84112
.br
USA
.br
Tel: +1 801 581 5254
.br
FAX: +1 801 581 4148
.br
Email: <beebe@math.utah.edu>
.\"==============================[The End]==============================
