       #########################################################
       # Bundle all the files needed to build a LaTeX document #
       # By Scott Pakin, pakin@uiuc.edu                        #
       #########################################################


Description
-----------

bundledoc is a post-processor for the snapshot package that bundles
together all the classes, packages, and files needed to build a given
LaTeX document.  It reads the .dep file that snapshot produces, finds
each of the files mentioned therein, and archives them into a single
.tar.gz (or .zip, or whatever) file, suitable for moving across
systems, transmitting to a colleague, etc.

As an added bonus, this distribution includes a small script called
arlatex.  arlatex is a LaTeX-specific archiving program that combines
a bunch of files into a single .tex file.  When the .tex file is run
through latex, all of the original files are recreated and the LaTeX
document is built.  bundledoc can be easily configured to use arlatex
as its archiver in place of tar, zip, etc.


Files
-----

-rw-rw-r--    1 pakin    chien        4713 Aug  5 15:44 README
-rwxrwxr-x    1 pakin    chien        9577 Aug  2 15:11 arlatex
-rw-rw-r--    1 pakin    chien       10082 Aug  2 15:11 arlatex.1
-rwxr--r--    1 pakin    chien       29996 Aug  5 15:33 arlatex.pdf
-rwxrwxr-x    1 pakin    chien       18977 Aug  2 02:46 bundledoc
-rw-rw-r--    1 pakin    chien       16996 Aug  2 14:18 bundledoc.1
-rwxr--r--    1 pakin    chien       46806 Aug  5 15:31 bundledoc.pdf
-rw-rw-r--    1 pakin    chien         338 Jan 28  2001 miktex.cfg
-rw-rw-r--    1 pakin    chien         225 Jul 22 18:50 tetex.cfg


Requirements
------------

bundledoc and arlatex are both Perl scripts, so you naturally need
Perl installed on your system.  bundledoc relies on the snapshot
package, which is available from CTAN (http://www.ctan.org).  Before
running bundledoc, you must have used snapshot to produce a dependency
list for your document.  Finally, bundledoc requires that you have
some program for archiving a bunch of files into a single file
(e.g. tar, shar, zip, or arlatex) and some program that can search
your TeX tree(s) for a given file (e.g., kpsewhich or initexmf).


Installation
------------

Installation is fairly flexible.  The bundledoc and arlatex scripts
should be put somewhere in your executable search path (e.g.,
/usr/local/bin on a typical Unix-like system).  The Unix man pages,
bundledoc.1 and arlatex.1, should be put in the corresponding man
directory (e.g., /usr/local/man/man1) -- or discarded, if you're not
on a Unix-like system and therefore have no interest in having a man
page.

The *.cfg files can go anywhere -- just don't forget where you put
them. ;-)  I guess I'd recommend .../texmf/tex/latex/bundledoc (where
"..." is /usr/share or wherever your TeX tree is rooted), assuming
your TeX distribution follows the TDS directory structure (meaning, it
*has* a .../texmf/tex/latex directory).

bundledoc.pdf and arlatex.pdf are pretty-printed PDF versions of
bundledoc.1 and arlatex.1 and can also go anywhere.  If you want
printed documentation, these PDF files will give the nicest results.
Just note that they're formatted for U.S. Letter-sized paper, so you
may need to scale them slightly to print on A4 paper.

Note that it's possible to produce documentation in other formats.
The bundledoc and arlatex scripts contain documentation in POD format.
You can therefore extract the documentation into your favorite format --
LaTeX, HTML, plain text, etc. -- using the various pod2*** tools that
come with Perl.


Copyright and license
---------------------

    bundledoc                                                            
    Copyright (C) 2001 Scott Pakin                                       

    This program may be distributed and/or modified under the conditions 
    of the LaTeX Project Public License, either version 1.2 of this      
    license or (at your option) any later version.                       

    The latest version of this license is in:                            

       http://www.latex-project.org/lppl.txt                             

    and version 1.2 or later is part of all distributions of LaTeX       
    version 1999/12/01 or later.                                         

    This program consists of the file bundledoc and all the files listed 
    in the Files section of the associated README file.                  

The license basically says that you can do whatever you want with
bundledoc, as long as you give me credit for writing it.  Also, if you
modify any of the files, you have to call your modified version
something other than "bundledoc".
